So now we already learned quite a bit
about Redux but up to this point,
we always just worked with our single counter value.
Now I got this Toggle Counter button here
and when it's clicked,
I wanna make sure that the counter is hidden
and when it's clicked again, it should be shown again.
Now for this, of course, we could use useState.
So we could set up some local state in this component
which we manage with useState, not with Redux.
And that would be the proper way of doing it
because showing or hiding the counter
is something which only is interesting to this component,
not to any other part of the application
but the same could be set about our counter.
We are only using the counter in this component here.
So the counter technically also is local state
but this is just a simple demo to get started.
So let's assume that both the counter as well as the state
wherever the counter should be visible or not,
is a global state which is also the interesting
to other components even though that's not the case here.
As we progress once we know these basics,
we will, of course, also work on demos and projects
where this then really is the case.
But for the moment, let's assume it.
So when we click this button,
the toggleCounterHandler is fired.
And then here we wanna dispatch an action
which changes some state in Redux
which controls whether this counter div is shown or not.
For this, we need to add a new state
a new piece of data to our Redux store.
And how do we now do that?
Well, to add a new piece of data,
we need to go to our reducer in the end and just add it
to all these state snapshots which we are producing.
Let's start with the initial state snapshot.
When we start besides having a counter
which has a value of zero, I wanna have a showCounter field
which has a value of true or false, that's up to you.
And to keep this a bit more readable,
I'll extract that and store that in a constant
named initialState like this
and assign initialState here then
just to make this a bit easier to read.
Now when we increment, we are changing the counter,
we don't care about showCounter.
We still need to set the showCounter property here though
because we are returning the overall state object
and Redux won't merge your changes with the existing state.
It instead takes what you return
and replaces the existing state with it.
More on that in a second.
But for the moment that's just accept it
and set showCounter here to state.showCounter.
So to the value we currently have in our state
because for increment, we don't wanna change it,
so we will just take the existing showCounter value.
And then we can do the same here for increase
because there we also wanna keep
the existing showCounter value
and do the same for decrement here.
But now I will also handle a new action type
and by the way, since we have many if statements here,
we could also use a switch case statement,
but I will stick to multiple if statements here for now
and in this new action type,
I will check for, let's say toggle.
Now the identifier just like all these identifiers
is up to you.
I'll go with toggle and then return a new object.
Here, we now wanna change showCounter
and set it to the opposite of what it was before.
If it was true, we wanna set it to false,
if it was false, we wanna set it to true.
And we can do this by simply adding an exclamation mark
and then accessing state.showCounter.
This will invert the value.
Now for the counter itself, we wanna keep the existing state
because we don't wanna change this here for this action.
So we just set counter to state.counter.
Now we also support this new toggle action type
and hence back in counter.js in the toggleCounterHandler,
we should dispatch such an action.
We dispatch a new action object where the type is toggle.
Now we can take advantage of this toggle state,
so of the show counter.state,
and for that we need to get access to it.
So all to in the counter, we again call useSelector.
We can use this multiple times to retrieve different pieces
of data from the state.
And here I'm then interested
in my showCounter piece of data,
and I'll store that in a show constant.
The constant name of course is up to you.
Now again, that will then always update
and the component will be re-evaluated
whenever that data which we're accessing here changes.
So now here with show extracted,
we now can render this div here conditionally
by checking if show and only rendering the div
if show is truthy, like this.
If we now save this and reload,
if we click Toggle Counter, it's gone,
if I click this again, it's there again.
I can still increase it even if it's hidden
but it only shows up when,
well, when I click Toggle Counter.
So that now also works and that is how we can manage
multiple different pieces of data in our state.
Of course, this data is still kind of connected,
we have the counter and then the state
whether we wanna show it or not
but it's too totally different values
which are changed in totally different ways.
So therefore, that is how we can manage
multiple pieces of data.